Atlanta is home to more than a half million people; all of different racial and socioeconomic backgrounds. It seems logical that everyone in the same geographical area in spite of their differences would have the same quality of water, air, and life. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Low-income and communities and communities of color are disproportionately affected by toxic pollution in Atlanta. Environmental injustice is defined as the instance where a group is disproportionately exposed to toxic chemicals or environmental hazards due to their race or socioeconomic class. 

In the US, many communities of color and low-income communities have had their quality of life affected by more and more landfills, truck depots, and incinerators being placed within their immediate environment. Studies have proved that in the south, of each 5 African Americans or hispanic residents 3 will be living in a community with one or more toxic waste sites. Another clear example of these disparities is the green index; is it coincidential that the states with the highest percentage of African-American residents score the lowest on the US green index? Even the programs aimed at creating a better environment for Americans like the SuperFund cleanup, has been shown to favor areas of white majority. 
 These decisions and placements are not random. They are directly caused by the lack of laws that protect these vulnerable communities; they are unable to fight the big corporations that destroy their environments. 
Benjamin Chevis, who coined the term environmental racism, once said:
 “Environmental racism is racial discrimination in environmental policy-making and enforcement of regulations and laws, the deliberate targeting of communities of color for toxic waste facilities, the official sanctioning of the presense of life threatening poisons and pollutants in communities of color, and the history of excluding people of color &om leadership of the environmental movement”

The air, water, and life quality of those vulnerable communities are directly affected by these environmental hazards. Neighborhoods near incinerators, waste sites, and large factories are more exposed to air pollution which is directly linked to asthma, cardiovascular disease, lung disease, and cancer. Studies have proved that non-Hispanic whites had the lowest exposure rates to polluted air. Meanwhile, Hispanics had a higher exposure rate, and African Americans had the highest exposure rates of all.
Water supplies are also affected by surrounding hazards. Runoff from factories or waste sites can contaminate the water making it non suitable for drinking or cleaning. A famous example are the Navajo nation residents who are now forced to commute long hours on a dangerous road to get clean water after their water supply has been contaminated by uranium due to uranium mining in the area. Many other communities face similar problems; low income migrant farmers and their crops are suffering as well. 
Many other life factors are affected by environmental injustice leading to a lower life quality. According to the CDC, children of color are 11.2 times more likely to suffer from lead poisoning by cheap lead based paints  in their surroundings. Another example is the disproportionate exposure of black Americans to NO2, a pollutant that causes heart disease and premature death, by 37%. These exposures are due to unfair city planning that endangers some residents as well as policies that fail to protect them.  All these factors are directly impacting the health of colored and poor communities. 
 
Metropolitan Atlanta, like many other cities in the US, is suffering from environmental injustice. The majority of occupants in the inner city and away from the suburbs are low-income families or families of color which means that they are affected most by air and water pollution. A study of the main counties within Atlanta showed that non-whites occupy only 25.4% of low pollution blocks and a staggering 44.2% of high pollution blocks. This is not a minor problem, specially since the majority of Atlanta residents are Africa-Americans.

One of the biggest pollution hotspots lies within 1.5 miles of Fulton Industrial Boulevard near the intersection of Cobb, Douglas, and Fulton (some of the busiest counties). This area is also part of the Chattahoochee River which is main drinking water source for Atlanta, so any pollution or toxic runoff is also affecting the river. 20% of the residents withing those 1.5 miles are under the federal poverty line and 80% of them are of color. This area has 19 different air pollutant sources and is under 27 environmental violations. Many other areas in Metropolitan Atlanta face similar fates. The richer and less diverse the area is, the safer it gets environmentally.

In hopes of highlighting this environmental injustice in Atlanta, we have created a map with all counties within Metropolitan Atlanta each annotated with its air quality, water quality, and environmental hazards against it’s income and race. 

 
 
