The only way to achieve environmental justice is to raise awareness for the issue and combat the root causes of environmental injustice.
Social media is a good way to raise awareness. This can be through activism posts, memes, or informative pieces. Use social media to let your friends and peers know that there is an issue and action needs to be taken.
Government is another way to create change and combat environmental injustice. Use your voice to elect the officials at the local, state and federal level that will best help your community fight climate change and environmental justice. Write to your elected officials and let them know what policies you care about and how they can help your community.
Non-Profit organizations are a way to achieve environmental justice. Below is a list of non-profit organizations that are fighting environmental injustice that you can join, support or donate to in order to create a cleaner, healthier neighborhood here in Atlanta, and in cities across the country.

GreenLaw

GreenLaw is an environmental justice organization that provides free legal and technical support to environmental groups and organizations throughout Georgia. They are a good organization to support because lawyers and legal fees are expensive and are the reason many activist groups fail to enact change. Donating to a group like GreenLaw ensures that the environmental groups in Georgia are able to put policies in place that combat environmental injustice.

WE ACT

WE ACT is a non-profit organization whose mission is to ensure people of color and low-income people participate in creating fair environmental health and protection policies and practices. While they are based in New York, they do work nationally with other groups like Climate Justice Working Groups in order to address environmental injustice in communities everywhere.

Dream Corps

The Dream Corps supports environmental, economic, and racial justice movements to create solutions to poverty and pollution. They uplift the voices of people of color and low-income families through policy work to go towards a better, cleaner economy, better jobs and health, and more opportunities for underserved communities. Dream Corps works with neighborhood activists, national organizations, hip hop artists, clergy, elected officials, business leaders, civil rights advocates etc. They are a national organization that you can donate to or join to support the cause directly.

NAACP

The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People started an environmental and climate justice program to address the issues that disparagingly impact communities of color and low-income areas. Their three main goals include reducing harmful emissions, advance clean energy, and strengthen community resilience and livability. You can either donate to the cause, or contact one of the main regional directors of the movement and learn how you can join the cause and get involved to make a difference.

EarthJustice

EarthJustice is a non-profit organization of lawyers fighting to combat environmental injustice. As stated with GreenLaw, lawyers and court fees are expensive, and we need to be able to implement the policies necessary to enact change for communities suffering from environmental injustice.

<br>

Below is a list of the previously mentioned organizations’ websites. We strongly encourage you to look further into these organizations and others similar. Your actions and others around are vital to the future of our planet and civilizations. So, while you’re at it, why not invite a friend to join you on your quest to fight the injustices that stem from the effects of climate change. Be the difference!
